Hello, everyone.
I bring you warm greetings from the governing body and the United States Bethel family.
We want you to know that we love you all very much.
We're concerned about you, and we pray for you each and every day.
We know that more and more of you are being affected by the coronavirus pandemic.
You can't go to work.
You can't go to school.
You can't go to the Kingdom Hall or preach from house to house.
Some of you have lost your jobs, and you have no idea how you're going to be able to feed
your family.
Others have family members who live far away.
There's no one else in the house.
They're worried about them.
And sadly, some are mourning the loss of loved ones who have been victims of the disease.
We want you to know that our heart aches for you.
We're so sorry for your loss.
Now these are very stressful times, but it's important to remember one thing.
No friend of Jehovah is ever truly alone.
Through his Holy Spirit, Jehovah can help us, he can sustain us, even if there's no one
else in the house.
Another way Jehovah is helping us is by means of caring shepherds.
And this is in line with the promise that he himself made.
We're going to read Jeremiah chapter 23 and verse 4.
And you'll see how this prophecy is being fulfilled today.
I'm just going to read a part of it.
Here's the promise Jehovah made that he was going to raise up shepherds who will really
shepherd them.
And at the end it says none of them will be missing.
Well can you see how that promise is being fulfilled today and the elders?
Just think of all the work our elders are doing to make sure that we don't miss out on
spiritual food, for example.
They're arranging for us to tie into congregation meetings.
They set up shepherding calls using video conferencing.
They arrange for meetings for field service and they make sure we have telephone territory
and letter writing territory.
Of course these shepherds are also concerned about your physical well-being.
So from time to time they may also check in on us to make sure that we have basic food
items, medications, and other necessary things.
Now if they do that, don't be shy, let the elders know your needs.
They may also provide practical suggestions on how you can protect your health.
Now as you can imagine, when the pandemic broke out the elders had a lot of questions.
They'd never dealt with this before.
And suddenly they needed to do all kinds of things that they hadn't done before, set
up video conferencing accounts, learn how to use new apps like Skype and Zoom.
What's that?
They become familiar with how to organize an entire congregation meeting online.
It's been a huge task for our brothers and we want to commend them for the excellent
job they're doing.
The elders had a lot of questions, but through his organization Jehovah provided the direction
they needed and an experience from Canada will bring this out.
Let's watch a video in which Brother Warren Schufeld, a member of the Canada Branch Committee,
explains what happened in Canada.
In the face of the coronavirus threat, a body of elders near the Canada branch recently
met to determine how to go forward with congregation meetings.
They had so many questions how to balance the spiritual needs of the brothers with government
regulations on gatherings.
They prayed to Jehovah for guidance.
But as their meeting went on, it still wasn't clear to them how to proceed.
And then one of the brothers noticed on his electronic device, a letter from the branch
with instructions to the elders.
As they read through it, it answered all their questions and even some they hadn't anticipated.
They viewed this as Jehovah's answer to their prayers, but now they had less than 24 hours
to prepare their first ever congregation meeting by video conference.
Prayerfully, they followed the instructions step by step.
And the next evening, the whole congregation gathered for a meeting by video conference.
The attendance was well over 100%.
And one of the families that was in attendance, wrote to the elders,
we are so grateful for all the effort to provide this much needed spiritual food live.
It was exactly what we needed.
Thank you.
What an encouraging experience that was.
Thanks, Warren.
We really appreciate it.
And you know, it reminds me of what the prophet Isaiah foretolded.
Isaiah 65 and 24.
Even before they call, I will answer.
While they are yet speaking, I will hear.
When we think of carrying elders, our circuit overseers come to mind because they're often
a vital link between the branch and the congregation when disaster strikes.
And it reminds me of an experience my wife and I had back in 2010.
I was assigned to do a shepherding visit to Haiti about 10 days after a tremendous earthquake
took hundreds of thousands of lives and sadly, 154 of our brothers also lost their lives.
Well, I met with the traveling overseers in the country and I learned that some of them
had lost members of their own family, but they were at the forefront of the rescue effort
so they hadn't had time to mourn their own loss.
They were still looking for survivors of the quake.
So what did Jehovah say?
I will raise up shepherds who will really shepherd them.
None of them will be missing.
And those shepherds in Haiti were going to make sure that none of their brothers and sisters
were missing.
Do you know that our fine traveling overseers are continuing to serve congregations
as best they can during this pandemic?
How is that possible?
In this encouraging video report, Brother Paul Aichon, who's a member of the Philippine's
branch committee, tells how even remote congregations are being cared for.
This is interesting.
Let's watch.
A circuit overseer in the Philippines wrote regarding his experience using the videoconferencing
app Zoom to visit two of the remotest congregations in his circuit.
Normal travel to these islands by small boat may take between five to eight hours, depending
on sea conditions and the size of waves from the Pacific Ocean.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, travel restrictions to Patna Nungan and Humali Islands were implemented.
The circuit overseer and his wife prayed fervently to Jehovah, asking for possible means to still
visit the congregations for the last two weeks of March.
Just days later, they receive a letter from the branch office about alternative ways
of making congregation visits.
These included the possibility of virtual visits with the use of online conferencing tools.
The circuit overseer immediately informed the elders and they excitedly tested their new
found means of communication.
The visits were a success.
The brothers and sisters were so thankful and really felt Jehovah's love for them.
Reflecting on his experience, the circuit overseer said,
it is obvious that no coronavirus can prevent our Almighty God Jehovah from providing encouragement
to his servants today.
We are determined more than ever to help and encourage the brothers to continue trusting
in Jehovah completely.
As mentioned in Psalm 91-2, it says, you are my refuge and my stronghold.
What did we read at Jeremiah 23-4?
None of them will be missing.
Jehovah knows where all his sheep are and he arranges for them to be cared for, thanks Paul.
And please give our warm love and greetings to our brothers in the Philippines.
We love them all very much.
So what do we want to take away from this brief discussion?
Two points.
First, we believe that Jehovah will continue to guide his organization every step of the
way.
And it's been faith strengthening to see how at times the organization has been won
or even two steps ahead of the authorities in giving direction to protect the flunk.
So that's the first point.
Jehovah will continue to direct the organization.
Second, what is one of the means by which he will do that, by providing loving shepherds
to carry out that direction.
And over them is the one who said, I am the fine shepherd.
The fine shepherd surrenders his life in behalf of the sheep.
Brothers and sisters, take good care of yourselves.
Don't take chances.
Obey the instructions of the superior authorities.
We at Bethel are extremely conscientious about following the guidelines we receive.
So if the authorities tell you to stay home, stay home.
Practice social distancing.
Now, keep up to date with the news, but don't obsess.
Don't watch it too much.
It can be just too discouraging.
Now, what season are we in?
Memorial season.
So what should be the real focus of our thoughts at this time?
The incredible gift of the ransom.
The love of Jehovah God, the love of Christ Jesus, those things should be the object of our
thoughts.
And when you feel alone or stressed out, repeat to yourself the hard cheering words that
we find at Hebrews 13 and 5.
I will never leave you, and I will never abandon you.
Be assured of our warm love and prayers.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.